Add puppet out of sync interval (#626)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_puppet-setting-out-of-sync-time-for-puppet-managed-hosts.adoc

= Setting Out of Sync Time for Puppet Managed Hosts

{Project} considers hosts managed by Puppet to be out of sync if the last Puppet report is older than the combined values of `outofsync_interval` and `puppet_interval` set in minutes.
By default, the Puppet agent on managed hosts runs every 30 minutes.
The `puppet_interval` is set to 35 minutes and the global `outofsync_interval` is set to 30 minutes.

The effective time after which hosts are considered out of sync is the sum of `outofsync_interval` and `puppet_interval`.
Setting the global `outofsync_interval` to 30 and the `puppet_interval` to 60 results in a total of 90 minutes after which the host status changes to `out of sync`.

[id="puppet_guide_setting_the_puppet_agent_run_interval{context}"]
== Setting the Puppet Agent Run Interval

Set the interval when the Puppet Agent runs and sends reports to {Project}.

.Procedure
. Connect to your managed host using SSH.
. Add the Puppet Agent run interval to `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppet.conf`, for example `runinterval = 1h`.

[id="puppet_guide_setting_the_puppet_interval_{context}"]
== Setting the Puppet Interval

.Procedure

> . In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer > Settings*.

Author: Applied.

> . On the *Puppet* tab, edit *Puppet interval*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Puppet interval* field, edit the value to the duration, in minutes, after which hosts reporting using Puppet are considered to be out of sync.
```
Is Puppet interval a field?

Author: yes, it's literally `Puppet interval`.

Applied.

Set a duration in minutes after which hosts reporting using Puppet are considered to be out of sync.

[id="puppet_guide_setting_the_out_of_sync_interval_{context}"]
== Setting the Out of Sync Interval

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer > Settings*.
. On the *General* tab, edit *Out of sync interval*.
Set a duration in minutes after which hosts are considered to be out of sync.
+

> Overwrite this on individual hosts or host groups by adding the `outofsync_interval` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also overwrite this on individual hosts or host groups by adding the `outofsync_interval` parameter.
```

Author: Applied.

[id="puppet_guide_setting_of_of_sync_interval_for_individual_hosts_{context}"]
== Setting Out of Sync Interval for Individual Hosts

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts > All Hosts*.
. Click *Edit* for a selected host.
. On the *Parameters* tab, click *Add Parameter*.

> . Enter `outofsync_interval` as *Name*, set the type to *integer*, and set a value in minutes.

Reviewer: IBM style prefers orientation before action. 
```suggestion
. In the *Name* field, enter `outofsync_interval`.
. From the *Type* list, select *integer*, and set a value in minutes.
```

Author: Applied.

[id="puppet_guide_setting_out_of_sync_interval_for_host_groups_{context}"]
== Setting Out of Sync Interval for Host Groups

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Configure > Host Groups*.
. Select a host group.
. On the *Parameters* tab, click *Add Parameter*.

> . Enter `outofsync_interval` as *Name*, set the type to *integer*, and set a value in minutes.

Reviewer: Same as above.
